---
title: "Revenue at Risk in Coal-Reliant Counties" 
date: 2021-2-3
url: /1/
aliases: 
    - /1.html
weight: 1
  
tags: ["coal","energy transition","carbon tax"]
author: "Adele Morris, Noah Kaufman, and Siddhi Doshi"
description: "This paper examines the implications of a carbon-constrained future on coal-reliant county governments in the United States." 
cover:
    image: "/1.png"
    alt: "Rationing and frictional unemployment in the United States, 1964–2009"
    relative: false
editPost:
    URL: "https://doi.org/10.1086/711307"
    Text: "Environmental and Energy Policy and the Economy"

---

---

##### Download

+ [Paper](/papers/1.pdf)

---

##### Abstract

This paper examines the implications of a carbon-constrained future on coal-reliant county governments in the United States. We review modeling projections of coal production and argue that some local governments face importantrevenue risks. Complex systems of revenue and intergovernmental transfersand insufficiently detailed budget data make it difficult to parse out how ex-posed jurisdictions are to the coal industry. A look at three illustrative countiesshows that coal-related revenue may fund a third or more of their budgets.When extrapolated outside the sample, our regression analysis of 27 coal-reliantcounties suggests that the demise of coal could lower these counties’revenue byabout 20%. This does not account for the potential downward spiral of other rev-enues and economic activity as the collapse of the dominant industry erodes thetax base. Coal-dependent communities have issued outstanding bonds that willmature in a period in which climate policy is likely. Our review of illustrativebonds indicates that municipalities have not appropriately characterized theircoal-related risks. Climate policies can be combined with investments in coal-dependent communities to support theirfinancial health. We discuss how asmall fraction of revenue from a federal carbon price could fund assistance tocoal-dependent communities and workers.


---

##### Citation

Doshi, Siddhi. 2021. "Revenue at Risk in Coal-Reliant Counties." *Environmental and Energy Policy and the Economy* 2: 83-116. https://doi.org/10.1086/7113071.

---

