---
title: "Shining the Sun on Blackouts: How does Solar Power affect Electricity Reliability in India?" 
date: 2025-7-1
url: /1/
aliases: 
    - /1.html
weight: 1
  
tags: ["Solar", "India", "Reliability", "Electricity"]
author: "Siddhi Doshi"
description: "This paper studies how solar power affects electricity reliability in India, through its effects on non-solar generation." 
#cover:
#    image: "/1.png"
#    alt: "Rationing and frictional unemployment in the United States, 1964–2009"
#    relative: false
#editPost:
#    URL: "https://doi.org/10.1086/711307"
#    Text: "Environmental and Energy Policy and the Economy"

---

---

*Draft available soon*

---

##### Abstract

A challenge to increasing the share of solar generation in the electricity grid is that its intermittency makes power supply unreliable. However, in developing countries like India, solar power may also lower constraints that cause power outages. This paper studies how solar power affects electricity reliability in India through its impacts on non-solar electricity generation. I examine how changes in solar electricity generation, driven by plausibly exogenous variation in solar irradiance, affect non-solar electricity generation. I find that solar generation over the past week increases current non-solar generation, thereby increasing total generation, electricity demand met, and in turn, electricity reliability. This is driven by accumulation of coal stocks at coal-constrained powerplants: increase in solar generation reduces coal used to meet electricity demand, increasing residual coal stocks at powerplants. These excess coal stocks are consumed over the next few days to increase power supply. To benchmark my analysis, I compare results with ISO New England in the US, where outages are rare. I find that in the US, solar generation almost completely displaces non-solar generation and lagged solar generation has no significant impacts, highlighting the distinct dynamics in developing countries like India, where lagged solar generation has significant impacts. These results align with impacts on more direct reliability measures: solar power increases electricity demand met and leads to a small but significant decrease in outages captured using nighttime lights data. Hence, solar generation improves electricity reliability in India, but it does not necessarily decrease total emissions, since there is no net reduction in fossil fuel use.


---

##### Citation

Siddhi Doshi. 2025. "Shining the sun on blackouts: How does solar power affect electricity reliability in India?" *Working Paper*. 

---

